# CS340-Client-Server-Development
CRUD application using MongoDB, Jupyter, and Dash

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To ensure that my programs are readable, I focus on two major factors: 1. avoiding redundant code and 2. proper commenting practices and naming conventions.  To write code that is maintainable and adaptable, I try to implement classes and functions where it makes sense to.  This keeps the code clean and organized, as well as helping to avoid unnecessarily copying code over and over.  It also keeps the code lightweight which is great for speed and efficiency.  A good example of this is my Python CRUD Module which is very lightweight and highly adaptable for any program needing to access and manipulate data within a MongoDB database.
## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
Resources such as our textbook, documentation from MongoDB, Plotly, and Leaflet, as well as Youtube and Google all played a significant role in helping me understand exactly how I should approach this project.  As a computer scientist, I want to review all requirements and documentation before deciding exactly which tools I will be using for a given project.  In the past, I just dove head first into projects without too much planning ahead involved.  Basically winging it as I moved along.  This project taught me the importance of thinking ahead and understanding what the best tools for the job are, and how doing so helps the process move along more efficeintly. 
## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists solve real-world complex problems by writing code, developing algorithms, managing data, and a host of other things that contribute to building and creating software and technologies.  This project is a great example of how we can take a large dataset and access it in a way that is fast and beneficial for intended users.  The dashboard is clean, simple, and easy to use.  The filtering of the data can help companies get relevant results fast.  The program is readily adaptable for any dataset that is needed just by changing a few filtering queries to suit that specific data.

